---
title:  100 Days of Code - Wait.  What?
page:   post
layout: default
date:   2021-01-01
categories: onehundreddays
---

100 days of Blog is something of a new years resolution for me.  I like
writing, I like sharing my journey as a developer, but I have not written
as many posts as I would like. **#100DaysOfBlog** is me trying to fix that.

**Heads up!**
I do not intend this as a starter for someone who is new to development.
This topic has been tackled by much better writers than I, so I would
suggest starting there if you are new to development.  I plan to start the
articles focusing on Ruby, so if you're interested in learning Ruby, I
began that part of my journey with
[Programming Ruby](https://pragprog.com/titles/ruby/programming-ruby-2nd-edition/){:title="Programming Ruby by Dave Thomas with Chad Fowler and Andy Hunt"}.
As always, your mileage may vary.

## Personal Journey

I am an entirely self-taught programmer, starting in a computer lab in high
school when I was given an independent study, intending to write plugins for
[Quake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quake_(video_game)){:title="Quake (video game) article on Wikipedia"}
I thought I could buy a Microsoft book on C++ and be productive by the end of
the year.  Oh, to be young and naive again.  At the same time, I was exposed
to Visual Basic while working at a local computer repair shop.
After finishing high school I ran into the Perl programming language, and
actually built useful scripts for automating my FreeBSD personal servers.

My experience in Perl and Visual Basic landed me a job with a small company
writing software for bottled-water home delivery.  The newly released Windows
CE handheld computers, would change the industry!  Spoiler alert:  It didn't,
and the company went under.

From there, I picked up a part time job "finishing" a partially completed
Perl application for selling insurance online.  I've been working on that
software (or versions there-of) for the last 17 years.  In the mean time,
I've strove to learn a new language every year, and usually a new web
framework at the same time. Eventually, I've landed on Ruby on Rails as
my goto web stack.

I continue to learn, read, and evolve, but I have not yet found a compelling
language and framework to pull me away from Rails, but I keep looking.
That has lead me to watching live programming streams, and added a drive to
give back to the community that helped me get where I am, and hopefully share
some of the wonder I've found in programming.
