---
layout: default
title: Why Rails?
tags:
  - ruby
  - rails
---

Over the years, I've tried to dabble in a new framework and/or language once per year.  I find that
learning how other languages/frameworks approach problems lends insight to how my tooling works.

For example, JavaScript's
[Event Loop](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/EventLoop)
practically encourages an
[Event-driven architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event-driven_architecture),
which is at the core of many micro-services architectures.  Emit and event, and allow many
subscribers to register against that event.  It's an approach that leads to a plugable architecture,
which can be applied internally with only JavaScript.

So why have I latched onto [Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/)?  What about Rails makes me willing to
bet the farm on it?  The main item which stands out is interoperability.  Sane defaults for how to
quickly get building.  This is a part of being an "Opinionated Framework".  Rails is composed of
many smaller components, each designed to work together, and battle-tested in apps around the world.

As an anti-pattern, take the [Express](https://expressjs.com/) framework.  Express is a great HTTP
framework for routing HTTP requests.  It is not, however, an opinionated framework.  This means that
if you want an ORM, you can evaluate various ORM's, decide how reliable the projects are, and then
try to find documentation for how to integrate with Express.  There are other frameworks (such as
[Feathers](https://feathersjs.com/)) which are opinionated, but raise other concerns like dependency
tree depth (your project depends on Feathers, depends on Express, depends on 48 other packages).
How reliable are all of those projects?  But Express is also incredibly light, fast, and salable.

Is Rails immune from this deep dependency tree?  Absolutely not.  Rails 7.0.1 ships with 55
third-party dependencies.  That is a lot of dependencies, but those encompass all of the
functionality required for many web apps, until you start integrating with other API's.

There are other full-featured, opinionated, frameworks out there.  Probably the most widely known is
[ASP.NET MVC](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/apps/aspnet/mvc).  Not quite as fully-features as
Rails, but close.

Why do I consider an opinionated framework good?  I spent 18 years working in a "framework" called
[HTML::Mason](https://metacpan.org/pod/HTML::Mason)
which had no opinions on how to develop an application.  Choose your ORM, choose your session
management and storage, choose, choose, choose, choose.  Each of these choices imposes a limit;
less documentation for your specific stack, less help when things go wrong, smaller talent pool
when you want to expand your team.  When working this job, almost half of my time was spent
struggling with integrating various Perl modules, rather than implementing the features the business
could turn into revenue.

## Conclusion

So, again, why Rails?  I've seen streamers and other developers struggle with things I consider
simple in Rails.  I've seen JavaScript developers dance around adding a database because of the
complexities, or implement templates twice, in both server and client code, to facilitate SEO.
Heck, just setting up asset bundling is a chore in many frameworks.  Rails' sane defaults allow me
to be productive more quickly than any other framework I've worked with.

- Rails ships almost all of the features I need.
  - I'd love to see Authentication and Authorization baked in.
- Ruby is a heckin' nice language with good-enough performance.
- Major contributors to Rails are striving to keep it simple, but powerful.
  - DHH (regardless of my personal feelings) called Rails
    ["The One Person Framework"](https://world.hey.com/dhh/the-one-person-framework-711e6318).
    An inspirational goal, but one I can empathize with.
- When working in Rails, I feel like I'm struggling with the business problem, not the tech stack.
- Rails is used in production by sites around the web, backed by major corporations.  Also the
    answer to, "But does Rails scale?", which pops up frequently.
  - [Github](https://github.com)
  - [Shopify](https://shopify.com)
  - [Twitch](https://twitch.tv)
  - [AirBnB](https://airbnb.com)

"So I should use Rails for everything?"  Heck no!  Rails is bulky, since it ships with everything.
If you're building just an API, Rails ships with an API-only mode, but other frameworks may be a
better fit.  If you're building console apps or Cloud-Native tech, where shipping code, shipping
containers, performance, and scaling to the moon are your concerns, other languages may be more
appropriate

But if you're trying to build a rock-solid web app on the quick, Rails should probably be on your
radar.

